Hi within this lecture we're going to go into a new subject called options.
In order to that I'm going to close this down and I'm going to create a new playground.
So I'm going to named is optional and just save it on my desktop.
OK.
So option those are great to to work and make our code safer so by safer I mean immune to crashes.
So last thing that we want.
Then someone uses our app is app to crash.
OK.
So options are actually here to make that preventable.
So let me show you what I mean.
I'm going to create a new string called my name and this will be James.
OK.
This is perfectly clear.
So if I do my name dots uppercase for example I will see James being upper case on the right hand side.
So we we have seen this right.
We know what this does to what happens if I don't want to go to the James value in the first place.
So as you might remember defining and assigning are two different things.
So I don't want to assign anything.
OK.
And if I call my name that uppercase as you can see it says that variable must be initialized.
So I haven't initialized it yet but I want to call this.
So how do I do that.
It's kind of different thing because in most cases we're going to get this string from the user or from
the Internet and we don't know if the string is going to be actually there or not.
So maybe user won't give any string give any name and they will click the uppercase button anyway so
they won't even write their names but they will click the button that will make their names uppercase.
OK.
So if we say string optional so this question mark actually stands for optional.
Okay.
This means that yeah.
This name is going to be there.
Probably what we're not even sure.
So if I do that this will give me two options.
So if I come over to my name says My name is an optional string right now rather than their regular
string I have to choose between two things.
If I want to make this optional again I can just say my name.
Optional that uppercase and if if I run this I won't get any error.
OK but I will get the value of nil as you can see Neal means nada nothing.
OK.
Emptiness.
So it's not an empty string.
It's nil.
It's not even initialized yet.
So let me create another string over here gave are my string and this is an empty string.
This is not nailed but my name is nil so nil versus empty string.
Two different things because you remember the difference between defining and initializing this my string
is initialized.
My name is not even initialized.
So if I don't want to initialize something and if I don't know whether it's coming or not I use options.
And this way this will produce nil but it won't crash the app for me.
And the other option is to come here and put an exclamation point.
OK.
So you remember the other option if you do it like this it will show you two options and the other option
is to say exclamation point.
And this means that I am perfectly sure that there is going to be a name initialized.
OK.
The user will give the name but if they don't and if they click on that button anyway as you can see
we got the error executing bad instructions so this means that your app has just crashed.
And this is the last thing that we want to happen in our app.
So there will be a lot of times when you will have to choose whether to make this optional or false
or wrap this or keep putting an exclamation point.
Yeah.
To be very careful because if you choose the wrong thing it will break your code.
So you cannot go with options every time.
By the way if that's what you were thinking and you cannot go with foresight wrap game with time as
well because this is very much obvious you can actually crash your app.
So we have some techniques to make this right.
I'm going to show you all of this.
Don't worry about it.
So right now I'm going to make this optional and I will run this again.
And as you can see my app will not crash but it will produce some nil.
So let me go to other examples.
So I'm going to create the name string and I'm going to call this Lars.
If I go to my string.
OK.
If I say my string exclamation point dot lowercase for example.
And if I do like does it will give me an error because we cannot force unwrap a value of non optional.
So this is not optional types.
Does a regular string.
We cannot do that over here.
OK.
We can only put exclamation points or put an optional then it's an optional type.
So in this my name case this is optional string.
OK.
So we have to be careful with this question mark and exclamation points.
So I'm going to give you a very concrete example where you will understand why you cannot use optional
every time and why you cannot use force wrapping every time as well.
And what is the optimal choice when it comes to a decision like this.
For example let me create a string over here OK.
This is my age but it's not an integer.
It says string as you can see it's all wrapped around a quotation mark.
And before we didn't try to convert as trick into an integer because we have to know about options in
order to do that and you can to see why right now I'm just trying to convert this string into an integer.
Can I do that with my age.
Of course I can.
Right.
So I can just say my integer.
OK.
And this will be entrapped my age.
So this will convert into my age into an integer.
But let me just multiply it by five for an example.
But it will give me an error.
So it will just say this is an optional.
And because we don't know if we can do this operation we don't know if we can convert this string into
an integer.
So we have to use a double question mark or an exclamation point in this stage.
So how do we do that.
What's a double question mark.
How about just inserting an exclamation point here because we can actually homework this into a integer.
Right.
So let me try that.
Let me try this vids and exclamation point and as you can see I managed to convert this to an integer
and multiplied by five.
But what happens if I change it to an apple.
So in this case our user decided to give an apple string rather than an integer so it just crashed.
Okay so it crashed our code as you can see we got this bad instruction error over here so it doesn't
work if we are sure that the user is going to give us a number anyway then maybe it makes sense to put
this the exclamation mark but if that's not the case then we shouldn't do it.
For example let's do the double question marketing.
So a double question mark is to provide a default Van optional value is actually nil.
So in this case this will attempt to convert this into an integer.
And if it doesn't if it cannot do that if it fails then we will provide the default value.
Okay.
And for default value we can just say something like zero.
And if we do that if we run this we will still get to 85 because the attempt is going to succeed.
But if we do it something like this if we do an F over here it won't convert this into an integer but
rather it will just take the zero over here the default value and multiply it by five and the result
will be zero.
But there will be times that I don't want that.
What if I don't want to get a zero as an output.
What if I just tried to display a message tax or something saying that you have to give me and number
two user because that's not good.
Zero is not what I'm looking for here I'm looking for a number.
Is there a way to do that.
Of course there is a way.
We use something like this.
If left means that we're trying to create a variable and if it succeeds we're going to do the following.
If it doesn't we can do what we want.
Okay.
And this won't crash the app.
This is the main difference.
So we do it like this.
Let me comment this out okay.
Or we can just leave it as it is doesn't mean and think so I can just do it like this leaflet my number.
It's my age and open parentheses.
So we means that V will attempt to convert this into an integer.
And if this succeeds then we can go to the coding block.
So whatever we write over here will be happening.
If this succeeds if it doesn't it won't crash the app so we can create a new variable for example and
multiply it by five.
So actually we can use my number as well because we have already create this and we can just print this
out or we can assign it to we we can assign D to be a new integer and we can print that out as well.
So if let my number is actually integer my number my H print my number multiplied by five.
So this gets zero in this case and I can add an L statement here as well.
Right.
So I can just say wrong input or give me a number.
So if I run this then I will see wrong input.
So that's perfect.
That's what I was looking for.
In this case my user will also know that he or she is doing something wrong.
I have to give a number.
I don't.
I'll make this work with strings or tax.
I have to give something like five or 10 or 20.
So if we come across it in a situation like this it means that we have to use this if let's control
leaflet statement in order to make our code save.
And also you know to keep things going.
So we have to display some message to the user or we have to do something else.
If this fails then this is the perfect choice for us.
So we're going to stop here and following the next section we're going to build an exemplary very simple
calculator in order to practice all these information that we have learned.